README.md, before:

# quartz

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/DavidHuie/quartz.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/DavidHuie/quartz) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavidHuie/quartz.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavidHuie/quartz)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/quartz.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/quartz)

Quartz enables you to call Go code from within your
Ruby code. This is accomplished by running a Go program
as a child process of your Ruby application and using UNIX domain sockets
for communication.

With this gem, you can now write performance critical code in Go, and that
code can be called from anywhere in a Ruby project.

To see some real world examples where Go can aid a Ruby project, please see
the `examples/` directory.

## Defining exportable structs

Quartz shares Go code by exporting methods on a struct to Ruby.

Quartz requires that all arguments to exported struct methods be JSON serializable
types. Additionally, the arguments to an exported method should be of the form
`(A, *B)`, where `A` and `B` are JSON serializable types. The method should also
return an error. Here's an example of an exportable struct and method:

```go
type Adder struct{}

type Args struct {
	A int
	B int
}

type Response struct {
	Sum int
}

func (t *Adder) Add(args Args, response *Response) error {
	*response = Response{args.A + args.B}
	return nil
}
```

For more information regarding Go's RPC rules, which must still be followed
when using quartz, please examine the official documentation for
the `net/rpc` package [here](http://golang.org/pkg/net/rpc/).

## Preparing a Quartz RPC server in Go

Instead of integrating Quartz into an existing Go application,
it is recommended to create a new program
that explicitly defines the structs that should be available
to Ruby.

First, import the Go package:

```go
import (
	"github.com/DavidHuie/quartz/go/quartz"
)
```

Quartz maintains most of Go's native RPC interface. Thus, export a struct
by calling this in your `main` function:

```go
myAdder := &Adder{}
quartz.RegisterName("my_adder", myAdder)
```

Once all structs have been declared, start the RPC server (this is a blocking call):

```go
quartz.Start()
```

## In Ruby

Naturally:

```shell
$ gem install quartz
```

If you have a `go run`-able file, you can create a Go client that
points to that file:

```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(file_path: 'my_adder.go')
```

If you compiled the Go program yourself, you can create a client
that points to the binary like this:

```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(bin_path: 'my_adder_binary')
```

To list exported structs:

```ruby
client.structs
=> [:my_adder]
```

To list a struct's exported methods:

```ruby
client[:my_adder].struct_methods
=> ["Add"]
```

To call a method on a struct:

```ruby
client[:my_adder].call('Add', 'A' => 2, 'B' => 5)
=> { 'Sum' => 7 }
```

By default the unix socket is created under `/tmp`. If you want to change that
you can pass the `socket_dir` option.


```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(bin_path: 'my_adder_binary', socket_dir: '/apps/my_app/tmp')
```

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2018 David Huie. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

Commit message:

Add support for custom socket paths

README.md, after:

# quartz

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/DavidHuie/quartz.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/DavidHuie/quartz) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavidHuie/quartz.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavidHuie/quartz)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/quartz.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/quartz)

Quartz enables you to call Go code from within your
Ruby code. This is accomplished by running a Go program
as a child process of your Ruby application and using UNIX domain sockets
for communication.

With this gem, you can now write performance critical code in Go, and that
code can be called from anywhere in a Ruby project.

To see some real world examples where Go can aid a Ruby project, please see
the `examples/` directory.

## Defining exportable structs

Quartz shares Go code by exporting methods on a struct to Ruby.

Quartz requires that all arguments to exported struct methods be JSON serializable
types. Additionally, the arguments to an exported method should be of the form
`(A, *B)`, where `A` and `B` are JSON serializable types. The method should also
return an error. Here's an example of an exportable struct and method:

```go
type Adder struct{}

type Args struct {
	A int
	B int
}

type Response struct {
	Sum int
}

func (t *Adder) Add(args Args, response *Response) error {
	*response = Response{args.A + args.B}
	return nil
}
```

For more information regarding Go's RPC rules, which must still be followed
when using quartz, please examine the official documentation for
the `net/rpc` package [here](http://golang.org/pkg/net/rpc/).

## Preparing a Quartz RPC server in Go

Instead of integrating Quartz into an existing Go application,
it is recommended to create a new program
that explicitly defines the structs that should be available
to Ruby.

First, import the Go package:

```go
import (
	"github.com/DavidHuie/quartz/go/quartz"
)
```

Quartz maintains most of Go's native RPC interface. Thus, export a struct
by calling this in your `main` function:

```go
myAdder := &Adder{}
quartz.RegisterName("my_adder", myAdder)
```

Once all structs have been declared, start the RPC server (this is a blocking call):

```go
quartz.Start()
```

## In Ruby

Naturally:

```shell
$ gem install quartz
```

If you have a `go run`-able file, you can create a Go client that
points to that file:

```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(file_path: 'my_adder.go')
```

If you compiled the Go program yourself, you can create a client
that points to the binary like this:

```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(bin_path: 'my_adder_binary')
```

To list exported structs:

```ruby
client.structs
=> [:my_adder]
```

To list a struct's exported methods:

```ruby
client[:my_adder].struct_methods
=> ["Add"]
```

To call a method on a struct:

```ruby
client[:my_adder].call('Add', 'A' => 2, 'B' => 5)
=> { 'Sum' => 7 }
```

By default the unix socket is created under `/tmp`. If you want to change that
you can pass the `socket_dir` option.


```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(bin_path: 'my_adder_binary', socket_dir: '/apps/my_app/tmp')
```

If you want to manage the Go process manually, you can use the
following system to set the socket path manually. Now, you can use
Systemd/Kubernetes/etc. to manage the Go process.

```shell
$ QUARTZ_SOCKET=/tmp/custom.sock ./go_process
```

```ruby
client = Quartz::Client.new(socket_path: '/tmp/custom.sock')

```

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2018 David Huie. See LICENSE.txt for further details.
